So in the last lecture we had this problem where we had to save the Customizer twice in order for the portfolio
slug to reflect here.
So if you still don't understand why the problem happens.
Please rewatch the last lecture and make sure you understand it before watching this lecture.
So the problem that we run the flush_rewrite_rules() after we save the Customizer.
But after we save the Customizer, the custom post type will not reregister,
it's actually already registered in the "init" action. And it's registered using the old name.
So the flush_rewrite_rules() will not see that you have a new name at this point, right?
So what we want to do is we want to run the flush_rewrite_rules() the next time we refresh our browser.
That way the "init" action will fire again and the "args_filter" will fire again and that's where we can see
the new value.
So how can we do that? We can still use the "after_save" but we will use it differently.
So what we need to do is after saving the Customizer we need to set like a $flag to "true".
And then in the "init" action,
and after registering the post type, we need to see this $flag.
And if this $flag is "true" that means that the Customizer has been saved.
So we need to run the flush_rewrite_rules() function.
So how can we run some code in the "init" action but also make sure that it runs after the custom post type
registration function?
We can simply add a new action and hook into the "init". And then create a new function, let's call it
"_themename_flush_rewrite". And then to make sure this function will run after the post type has been registered
is by simply providing a priority.
So you can type a large number, so we can make sure this function will run after this one.
Ok? So let's create this function.
And what do we need to do in this function?
We will need to check if the $flag is "true". And if the $flas is true
that means that before refreshing the page before running the "init" action we saved something in the
Customizer. So the $flag is "true". So if $flag is "true" we need to run the flush_rewrite_rules().
And this time we are sure that the flush_rewrite_rules() will run after registering the custom post type
with a new name because are using a high priority here. And then finally we'll have to set the flag back
to false so that flush_rewrite_rules won't rerun again when you refresh.
Right?
So the question now is how to set this flag?
What we need to do is we need a value that would persist when we refresh the page.
So what we can do is we can save a value to the database when we save in the Customizer.
And then when we refresh the page, when the "init" function fires and this function runs, here we will retrieve
this value from the database.
So how do we save a value to the database?
We can simply use a function called set_theme_mod(). And set_theme_mod() will add an option to our theme.
So its value will be saved to the database but this option will actually not appear anywhere in the
Customizer for example or in any settings page.
So this will just be used internally.
So let's call this option "_themename_flush_ flag" maybe and we need to set this value to "true". And then here
we will get_theme_mod() and the name of the option. And let's default it to "false".
So if this is "true" we will flush_rewrite_rules() and then we need to set the $flag back for to $false. So we can use this function
again but this time "false".
So let's try this.
So in the Customizer,
in the general options let's type "hey" for example. And now let's trace what will happen.
And we will hit publish. What will happen now is the "customize_save after" will run and this function
will run. And now we'll have in the database a value "_themename_flush_flag" that is equal to "true", right?
And now if we go here and type "hey" and hit enter what will happen
is the "init" action will fire and all the functions attached to the "init" action will fire, so
this one
where we define our post type. So this will run first and then this, because it has a higher priority,
will run after. And when this run it will check the $flag.
And if the $flag is "true" it will flush_rewrite_rules() and set the $flag back to "false".
So let's hit enter and as you can see it's working without having to save twice.
We still have one final problem.
We're now running the "customize_save_after" action and setting this $flag to "true" every time you save the
Customizer.
But actually you can save the Customizer without changing the portfolio so we don't need to flush
the rewrite rules every time we change something that may not be the portfolio slug.
Right?
So what we can do is inside the "customer_save_after" function we can get the value of the slug, of
the post type.
So let's call this $old and let's use a function called get_post_type_object(), this one.
And it takes a "post_type".
So ours is called "_themename_portfolio".
So this function will return an object that contains all the information about this post type.
So what do we need to retrieve?
We need to retrieve the "rewrite" and the "slug" inside the "rewrite".
Right?
So this one will contain the old slug.
Because as we mentioned the post type has already been registered with the old name. And the new one
will be inside the settings, inside
the get_theme_mod() and then the name of the setting.
So the name of the setting was this one. And the "default" is "portfolio". And we just have to simply check if the old is
not equals to the new.
We will set the $flag, right?
So $old.
So let's just make sure it's still working.
So let's set this to "portfolio" again.
Aand publish. And let's go to "/portfolio" and it's working.
I think that will be it for the custom post types.
I know the last couple of lectures may not be very straightforward.
So let me know if you have any questions and see you in the next section.